# Aether Vertentes #
These are the works of Aether as it is perceived and controlled in the disciplined mind of an Aether Channeller.

Aether Channeling is the art of focusing your energy into a raw, powerful, and useful form. It is the tuning of your body to harness aether. Anyone can learn the ways of Aether Vertentes as long as they are not touched with Arcanum Mysticae.

Aether requires you to take the skill "Aether Vertentes" before you can train or use aether-based skills. Aether abilities are bought and trained just like skills. They are just another form of skills for those who can focus it.

## Physics Aetheris ##
The physics of the Aether. Every living being has their Aether aura, a 3-dimensional oval. This aura has a specific amount of Aether it can hold, and this amount is determined by the skill level of the [aura strength] skill in the Capacitas Aether discipline. The aura does not have to be filled full of Aether at all times, but it can not be pushed to exceed its limit. The more you move Aether the more it fatigues your mind, meditation is key to keeping up a healthy mind. The more space inside your aura you leave for Aether, the more mentally fatigued you become, eventually when you get frighteningly close to no Aether in your aura, you will go mad. If you lose your complete Aether aura, you will die, and your spirit will not go -on into the universe because the person who channeled out the Aether took your spirit as well. The spirit is the combination of the Aether keeping a soul alive and in a being. An Aether channeler can take the spirit and extract the Aether from the soul, letting the soul go, stuck in the physical world as a ghost. 

## Discipline ##
The art of Aether Channeling is broken down into five Disciplines. Each Discipline is bought at IQ/Hard, with the accompanying skills being bought at IQ/Average. A true master of Aether is known as a Channeler, one who is well focused in all the Disciplines. Those who have not attained Channeler status are Aether Apprentices, while newcomers are Aether Initiates. You may also become a Master, which allows you to take on an apprentice, by mastering one of the five disciplines. The true Aether Channeler has the power to channel the complete soul of a sentient being into himself and keep it contained without faltering. The reason this is how you get the Channeler rank is because channeling the whole soul of a sentient being into yourself is the hardest thing to do in the Aether world, you have to keep the fighting soul quarantined constantly. 
* **Perceptio Aetheris (Sensing/Collaborating)**: Perceptio Aetheris is the Discipline of sensing and collaborating with other Aether spirits, whether alive or not. The more skilled you are at this discipline, the easier it is to sense other Aether spirits as well as communicate with them. You can also sense other Aether signatures and trans-locate to the strong enough signature. Being more skilled at the discipline allows you to trans-locate to smaller signatures because they feel stronger than if you weren't as skilled.

* **Capacitas Aetheris (Concentration/Capacity)**: The Discipline of concentrating Aether around you into yourself is known as Capacitas Aether. This allows you to concentrate Aether inside your body as a whole or in a specific location. It also helps increase the time you can hold in Aether before having to dissipate it (over-extending your capacity or holding it in too long can be physically damaging). Capacity is the skill that increases your auras strength. Concentration is the skill of compressing the Aether in your aura to a smaller more dense form. 

* **Transferre Aetheris (Transferring Concentrated Aether)**: Transferre Aetheris is the Discipline of transferring concentrated Aether to or from an object or being. Transferring Aether to an object for future use is something people may do with transferring, as well as giving someone Aether to use or transferring it into someone elses body to heal them. Aether transferring can also be used in a way to injure people, you can literally suck the life out of someone by sucking their Aether out of them, making them so mad and eventually die if enough of the Aether has been sucked out of them. The action of transferring a being's Aether from them in to yourself is much akin to blood vampirism: the more Aether you bring in, the more power hungry you become when that power dissipates. This is very dangerous as you will form a dependency on Aether in the most unhealthy of ways.

* **Aethera Virtus(Martial Enhancement)**: Aethera Virtus is the Discipline of using the concentrated Aether as a martial enhancement. You can create shields of Aether just next to your skin to reduce impact damage, you can focus the Aether into your arm muscles as you punch to make yourself punch much harder, it can reinforce your bones to make them not break, and you can make yourself move faster by focusing into muscles, etc. 

* **Aetheris Visus (Sensory Enhancement)**: The discipline of using the Aether as a sensory enhancement is known as Aetheris Perceptio. It allows you to see the signature of where the Aether belongs. If you were to see a certain persons Aether, the next time you saw it, you would recognize that itr was that specific persons Aether. As well as seeing the signatures, this discipline helps the concealment of your own signature, making it look like it belongs to whatever you put it into, or even framing someone else by making it look like someone specific that wasn't you. 
